Canine cataracts are one of the most common eye problems among dogs. A cataract is the opacity or blurriness of the eye lens. It is a breakdown of the crystalline lens or its capsule. This breakdown leads to the loss of transparency and the ensuing reduction of the canine’s vision. Canine cataracts can range from small areas to complete cataracts. Canines that have complete cataracts suffer total loss of light transmission that results to blindness. Canine cataracts can occur from a variety of causes. This includes trauma, nutritional deficiencies, diabetes, and spontaneous developmental abnormalities. Some are defects in the metabolism of the eye lens and old age. Canine cataracts can either be acquired or congenital.
It is very difficult to know the exact cause of canine cataracts. Congenital cataracts can either be inherited or not. There are two categories in canine cataracts. These are primary and secondary cataracts. If there is no other ocular abnormality at hand it is categorized as primary cataract. If the cataract is associated with an additional eye disorder, for instance “generalized progressive retinal atrophy, it is categorized as secondary cataracts.
Genetic canine cataracts can also either be inherited in a dominant or recessive manner. The most important factor in canine cataracts is genetic. The age of the commencement of the cataract, first cataract appearance and the progression rate are somewhat predictable on some canine breed. Genetic canine cataracts are also known as “juvenile canine cataract”. This refers to the age of onset of the cataract which usually occurs on young canine. This type of cataracts often develops blindness or remains dormant and does not interfere with the canine’s vision. The age of onset is essential in classifying the type of canine cataract because it can determine if the cataract is the result of a hereditary trait in some canine breed.
Congenital Cataract
Congenital cataracts are in-born cataracts. Congenital cataracts are often present of both eyes. Even if the dog is born with cataract it does not mean that that cataract is inherited. Toxins and infections are some of the causes of the formation of these types of canine cataracts. These cataracts often form while the puppies are still in the utero.
Developmental Cataracts
Developmental cataracts or “early onset cataracts” are canine cataracts that usually develop in the early life of the canines. Early onset cataracts have some similarity as congenital cataracts. Early onset cataracts can either be inherited or caused by outside sources like diabetes mellitus (sugar diabetes), toxicity, infection or trauma.
Senile Cataracts
Senile cataract or also known as “late onset cataracts” are cataracts that occur in canines that are over 6 years of age. Nuclear sclerosis if often confused with this type of cataract.


