Vision in early cataracts can be improved by changing the prescription of your eyeglass, or by using a magnifying lens, or stronger lighting for close work. However if the interference caused by cataracts are intense wherein it affects your everyday lifestyle such as reading, working, or driving. Cataract surgery is needed to correct that.
Cataract surgery is the most effective and commonly performed surgical procedure in the United States. Patients who undergo cataract surgery experience improved vision after the surgery. There are two procedures in cataract surgery. These are the phacoemulsification and the extracapsular surgery.
Phacoemulsification
Phacoemulsification is the most common cataract surgery procedure. Small incision is made on the cornea’s side and a tiny probe is inserted into the eye. In today’s technology, laser probe or ultra sound is used to break the lens without harming the capsule. The debris is then suctioned for removal. A foldable intraocular lens (a clear, artificial lens that becomes a permanent part of the eye once inserted) is then inserted through the small incision. It then unfolds once the intraocular lens is inside the capsule. The incision is self sealing so no sutures are needed for this operation and the risk of astigmatism and rapid pressure changes within the eye are minimized. Phacoemulsification obtains best results if the patient is within the early stage of cataract. Phacoemulsification does not require special preparation though the measurement of your eye’s length and corneal curvature is essential in calculating the power of the intraocular lens that is to be inserted in your eyes. An estimated ninety percent of patients who undergo phacoemulsification attain a better vision.
Extracapsular Surgery
This type of cataract surgery requires a long incision in the cornea. The len’s hard center is removed in one piece while the rest of the lens is suctioned. The natural lens is removed and replaced with an intraocular lens (made of silicon, or a type of plastic known as PMMA, or acrylic). Multiple sutures are needed to fasten the eye after surgery. The sutures must be tight to prevent astigmatism. Light is then able to pass through the retina thus improving the vision. After this type of cataract surgery the patient usually sees a blue tint around everything they see, this is because the cataract, before it was removed, blocks colors such as blues and violets. When the cataract is removed, the colors blue and violent will once again become clearer. On the other hand there are several complications of this type of cataract surgery or is more known as “after-cataract”. After-cataract is a long term and common complication of patients who undergo this type of cataract surgery. Some part of the natural lens or the lens capsule that was not removed may become hazy and may deter vision months or years after the surgery. “YAG laser capsulotomy” is needed in order to treat this complication.
