Do you have a fuzzy, foggy, cloudy and filmy vision? Are any changes in the color the way you see them? Are you having problems driving at night? Do you see halos around lights? Are you seeing double? Having glare problems from lamps and sunlight? Chances are you have cataracts. There is nothing to worry about. Cataracts are not a disease. Cataracts are a condition. A natural condition of the lens of the eyes as it age. If you look at your eyes and you see a cloudy, foggy and opaque appearance in you eyes or eye, you already have cataracts.
Cataracts are the clouding of the natural lens of the eyes. Sometimes, it is the result of the natural aging process. If you are not sure that you have cataracts, a thorough eye examination by an eye specialist can discover the occurrence of cataract as well as other eye condition that may be the cause of the eye problems that you may be experiencing. The only way to cure cataract is by removing them through surgical procedure and replace the natural lens with an artificial lens called “intraocular lens”. But remember, just because you have been diagnosed with cataracts it does not mean that you must have them removed through a cataract surgery procedure. Changing your eye glasses, or having a stronger bifocals, or sometimes using magnifying lens helps you improve your vision but if your vision deteriorates badly then it is time to have them surgically removed.
On the other hand, if you have been diagnosed to have cataract and you are in the Florida area, finding a good eye specialist will not be difficult. There are lots of eye specialists that specializes cataract surgery in Florida. In fact, cataract surgery in Florida one of the most performed and the most successful surgery procedure. Cataract surgery in Florida is mostly done on an outpatient basis. Most of the eye specialists use the latest techniques in small incision cataract surgery in Florida. Almost all patients who underwent cataract surgery in Florida have recovered with no problems and have improved their vision. With the advance technology and state of the art equipments, serious complications are very uncommon with cataract surgery in Florida.
In the earlier years, cataract surgery in Florida took a few hours with patients spending day recuperating in the hospital. Today, eye specialists have refined the cataract removal procedure and with the technological advances and research studies of today, cataract surgery in Florida is very much faster, with minimal discomfort and shorter recovery period. Most of their patients are allowed to return home immediately after the cataract surgery procedure. Most of the patients are capable of returning to their normal daily activities in a matter of few weeks or sometimes days.
