
The aging process of every individual in this world brings about the development of cataracts. Cataract is derived from the Latin word “cataracta” which means “waterfall” due to the common perception that it is like looking through a waterfall if you have cataracts. Cataract is not a disease; it is a condition, a condition by which the crystalline lens of the eyes becomes blurry and cloudy. The eye’s crystalline lens is made up of protein and water. The protein is bonded in some way that permits the light to pass into the retina. When the bond changes and the protein clump together that is how cataracts are formed. These clumps will eventually block the light that passes through and has the opaque and cloudy appearance. If an individual has cataract, that individual’s vision would become blurry and hazy. Sometimes that certain individual would see halos around lamps and lights.
The common symptoms of cataract are the blurring and the gradual deterioration of vision, muting and fading of colors, gradual decrease in night vision, and glare in sunshine and bright lights. Sometimes double vision may be experienced; however that symptom would disappear as the cataract develops.
If you vision has progressively deteriorates, it is best that you visit an eye specialist. They diagnose the problem and help you in the treatments. Most of the eye specialist would recommend stronger prescription eye glasses and contact lenses. But if the problem is too severe then they would recommend cataract removal by way of surgery procedure. If you are in the Chicago area and want to know which of the local eye specialist can conduct the best cataract surgery in Chicago, the best way to get that info is through the internet. The internet has a long list of local eye specialist that specialize cataract surgery in Chicago. There are many specialists in the Chicago area when it comes to surgical vision correction procedures. Eye specialists who perform cataract surgery in Chicago have state of the art equipments and high probability of success. The success rate of the eye specialist that conducts cataract surgery in Chicago is over ninety five percent. With their advance technology and their own unique methods, cataract surgery in Chicago is fast, safe, and most of all effective. Most of these eye specialists are trained in laser vision correction, Intracs, and refractive cataract surgery in Chicago.
Recovery from cataract surgery procedure is quick and usually has little or no problem at all. The recovery time is short but the necessity of the healing process takes longer. Normally the patient can go home immediately after the cataract surgery procedure but you must remember that it will take a few days after the surgery procedure for the discomfort to disappear.

