Cataract occurs when the crystalline lens of the eye becomes cloudy. The cloudiness of the crystalline lens prohibit and distort the much needed light from reaching the back of the eye which enables the eye to focus poorly. As the crystalline lens alters its transparency, blurred vision, sensitivity to light, night visions and glare problems eventually develop. Cataracts may lead to total loss of vision or blindness. The only known cure for cataracts is to have it removed by way of a surgical procedure.
Recent studies show that cataracts in Fort Collins, Colorado usually occur to people aging 70 years old and above. This just shows that age is one of the factors of developing cataracts. However another factor is diabetes, it is said that diabetes aid in the development of cataracts due to the changes and instability of the chemicals and proteins in the body. Eye trauma is also one of the main factors in developing cataracts. A direct blow to the eye socket, lens of the eyes or the eye as a whole can lead to traumatic cataracts. Although some of these types of cataracts might take years before the symptoms appear. Improper or prolonged use of certain medications like steroids can result to the development of cataracts. Medications like the ones used in treating breast cancer, gout and medications for treating irregular heartbeat can also lead to the development of cataracts. Smoking has also been linked to the development of cataract. Especially in Fort Collins, Colorado where there are many smokers due to the “cowboy machismo”. Chemicals found within the inhaled smoke can result to the break down of the natural proteins in the eye. Prolonged exposure to radiation such as sunlight can lead to the development of cataracts.
Cataract surgery in Fort Collins, Colorado is an optional procedure. Cataract surgery in Fort Collins has lots of state of the art outpatient eye surgery centers. Once the individual who has cataracts opts to go through a cataract surgery in Fort Collins, they will be evaluated by the eye specialist for pre-operative procedure. Cataract surgery in Fort Collins uses two methods in cataract removal procedure. Most eye specialists use an ultrasound probe to get rid of the cataracts. This is called the “phacoemulsification procedure”. The ultrasound probe softens and breaks the cataract into small pieces which is then suctioned out. An artificial lens or the “intraocular lens” is then placed to where the natural lens once has been. Another method is the “extracapsular cataract extraction”. This is the traditional method of removing cataracts. However this method of cataract surgery procedure isn’t recommended due to complications and risks after the surgery procedure. Cataract surgery in Fort Collins is the most performed and effective surgery procedure. Cataract surgery in Fort Collins is also very safe.
