Are you having difficulties with reading or watching television? Do you have a blurred and distorted vision? Does your vision decrease in low light conditions? Has your vision gradually deteriorates? Do halos appear around bright lights at night? Chances are you may already have cataracts. Cataracts is not a disease, it is a condition. Cataract is a condition that develops in the eyes. This condition is the cloudiness that is found in the eye’s crystalline lens or in its envelope. As the crystalline lens becomes cloudy, your vision becomes hazier. It is because the light that passes through the eye’s natural lens is block or scattered, thus keeping the retina from focusing. Early cataracts are usually cloudy and opaque. As the cataract matures it is denser making the retina receive less light which causes slow impairment of vision. With today’s research and advance technology, cataract can be cured. However, the only known treatment for cataract is by surgically removing it. There are two known methods in cataract surgery procedure. These are the “extracapsular extraction” procedure and the “phacoemulsification” procedure. Cataract surgery is the most effective and commonly performed surgery in the United States today.
If you are in the Illinois area and are looking for good doctors that would do cataract surgery in Illinois, worry no more. Here is a list of the top doctors that would perform cataract surgery in Illinois:
Northwestern Vision Correction Associates (www.nu-visioncorrection.com)
Northwestern Vision has a comprehensive eye care in the Chicago area. Northwestern Vision not only provides professional cataract surgery in Illinois, they also provide various eye procedures. Northwestern Vision is committed technology as well as personalized patient care. Northwestern Vision has the latest in the LASIK trends and technological advances. They offer better and more precise equipments.
SureVision Eye Center of Lake County (www.sureeyes.com)
SureVision Eye Center has a broad experience in the field of cataract surgery in Illinois. SureVision also offer a broad range of other comprehensive eye care services and refractive surgery. SureVision also has correction procedures like “custom cornea LASIK”, “custom cornea”, glaucoma treatment and “no stitch” cataract surgery in Illinois. They also perform cosmetic and functional eye lid surgery and general eye exams.
Dr.Sondheimer.com (www.drsondheimer.com)
Dr.sondheimer.com is the website of Stuart Sondheimer, MD. Dr.Sondheimer.com offers LASIK eye surgery, glaucoma treatment and cataract surgery in Illinois. Dr.Sondheimer.com has the latest laser correction solutions such as LASIK, wave scan LASIK and PRK.
Future Vision Laser Center (www.glassesfree.com)
Future Vision Laser Center probably one of the refractive centers in Illinois. Future Vision Laser Center has the state-of-the-art technology to perform cataract surgery. They have developed their own methods and techniques for the safest cataract surgery in Illinois.
LocateADoc.com (www.locateadoc.com)
LocateADoc.com helps you find doctors who specializes cataract surgery in Illinois.