There are two known types of surgery procedure for cataract removal. These are the “phacoemulsification” surgery procedure (small incision) and the “extracapsular” surgery procedure (large incision). Phacoemulsification procedure is the most common surgery procedure in cataract removal.
In the phacoemulsification procedure, a small incision (about 3 millimeters in size) is done on the cornea. The small incision is slightly widened in order to insert an ultrasound probe. The ultrasound probe then softens and breaks the cataract without damaging the capsule. The ultrasound probe vibrates at 50,000 cycles per second causing it to emit a sound at a very high frequency resulting the breaking of the cataract into very small pieces. The debris is then suctioned out and a foldable artificial lens known as “intraocular lens” are then placed into the area where the natural lens was removed. The intraocular lens is then gently inserted into the circular hole that was made in the cornea. Once in place, the intraocular lens then unfolds on its own and takes the permanent where the natural lens once has been. No stitching and sewing is required since the lens will remain in position. An eye drop solution of saline is then added to re-establish the intraocular pressure inside the eye.
Another method for cataract removal is the “extracapsular extraction” procedure. In this cataract removal procedure requires a large incision and the use of stitches. This method is used for individuals who have a very hard cataract or has a weak corneal epithelial tissue. In this cataract removal method, it involves the removal of lens and its surrounding lens capsule together in on piece. Artificial lens or intraocular lens are the placed to the natural lens’ place and the intraocular lens then becomes a permanent part of the eye. This cataract removal procedure has a high rate of risks and complications due to the large incisions made and the amount of pressure that is used to place on the vitreous body. Cataract removal operations are mostly performed with local anaesthetic.
During the cataract removal operation the patient is told to keep their eyes as still as possible. Patient won’t have to worry about keeping their eyes open. A small device is used to hold the eye lids open.
Most individuals who undergo cataract removal operation recover quickly. Sometimes the patient may experience little problems or complications or sometime no problem at all. If the patient underwent the phacoemulsification procedure, the patient’s recovery would be more quick and uncomplicated. Most of the time, the patient can go home immediately after the cataract removal operation. Although the patient has to make sure that somebody would take them home because driving after the cataract removal surgery is not possible.